---
layout: default
title: Installing git (OSX)
description: How to install git on OSX
categories: mac setup
main_category: setup
---

There are a number of methods to install git on OSX.  This guide details the most common methods, in order of ease of install.

h2. Pre-compiled Installer

Download and run "git-osx-installer":http://code.google.com/p/git-osx-installer/

h2. Homebrew

# Install "Homebrew":http://github.com/mxcl/homebrew if you haven't already done so.
# Install Git _(You may want to include Subversion support if you want to import SVN repositories. Snow Leopard already contains a copy of SVN)_

<pre class="terminal">$ brew install git
==> Downloading http://kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/git-1.6.5.7.tar.bz2
######################################################################## 100.0%
==> ./configure --prefix=/usr/local/Cellar/git/1.6.5.7
==> make install
==> Downloading http://kernel.org/pub/software/scm/git/git-manpages-1.6.5.7.tar.bz2
######################################################################## 100.0%
/usr/local/Cellar/git/1.6.5.7: 383 files, 16M, built in 74 seconds
</pre>

h2. MacPorts

# Install "MacPorts":http://macports.org/install.php if you haven't already done so.
# Make sure your ports are up to date.
# Install Git _(You may want to include Subversion support if you want to import SVN repositories)_

<pre class="terminal">$ sudo port selfupdate

MacPorts base version 1.600 installed
Downloaded MacPorts base version 1.600

The MacPorts installation is not outdated and so was not updated
selfupdate done!

$ sudo port install git-core +svn
--->  Installing curl 7.18.2_0
--->  Activating curl 7.18.2_0
--->  Installing openssh 5.0p1_0+darwin_9
--->  Activating openssh 5.0p1_0+darwin_9
--->  Installing p5-error 0.17012_0
--->  Activating p5-error 0.17012_0
--->  Installing popt 1.13_0
--->  Activating popt 1.13_0
--->  Installing rsync 3.0.2_0
--->  Activating rsync 3.0.2_0
--->  Installing git-core 1.5.5.3_0+doc
--->  Activating git-core 1.5.5.3_0+doc
</pre>

h2. Compiling git manually

See "compiling and installing git on mac os x":http://github.com/guides/compiling-and-installing-git-on-mac-os-x.
